The President:
Hi, everybody.
Today, I'm speaking to
you from the road --
a trip to Mexico and Costa Rica.
I'm here because Latin America
represents an incredible
opportunity for
the United States,
especially when it comes to
my top priority as President,
which is creating good,
middle-class jobs.
On Friday, we learned that our
businesses created another
176,000 jobs last month.
And that's 2.2 million new
jobs over the past year,
and 6.8 million new jobs
over the past 38 months.
But as I've said before, I won't
be satisfied until everyone who
wants a job can find one.
So I'm going to keep doing
everything I can and go
everywhere I need to go to help
our businesses create jobs.
Now, one of the best ways to
grow our economy is to sell more
goods and services made
in America to the rest
of the world.
And that includes our
neighbors to the south.
Right now, over 40% of our
exports go to the Americas.
And those exports are growing
faster than our trade with the
rest of the world.
That's why I visited Latin
America this week --
to work with leaders to deepen
our economic ties and expand
trade between our nations.
In Mexico, I also talked
about immigration reform,
because that's an important
issue that affects both
our countries.
The truth is, right now, our
border with Mexico is more
secure than it's been in years.
We've put more boots on that
border than at any time in our
history, and illegal crossings
are down by nearly 80% from
their peak in 2000.
But we've got more to do -- not
just to secure the border but to
fix an immigration system
that is badly broken.
In recent weeks, we've seen a
commonsense immigration reform
bill introduced in the Senate.
This bill is a compromise, which
means that nobody got everything
they wanted -- including me.
But it's largely consistent with
the principles I've laid out
from the beginning.
It would continue to strengthen
security at our borders and hold
employers more accountable
if they knowingly hire
undocumented workers.
It would provide a pathway to
earned citizenship for the 11
million individuals who
are already in this
country illegally.
And it would modernize our legal
immigration system so that we're
able to reunite families and
attract the highly-skilled
entrepreneurs and engineers who
will help create good paying
jobs and grow our economy.
These are all commonsense
steps that the majority of
Americans support.
So there's no reason that
immigration reform can't become
a reality this year.
In the meantime, I'll keep
working with our neighbors on
our common security and
our common prosperity.
Millions of Americans earn a
living right now because of the
trade between our nations.
And after this week, I'm as
confident as ever that we can
build on our shared heritage and
values to open more markets for
American businesses and create
more jobs for American workers.
Thanks and have a great weekend.